=head1 NAME

ping_host_add - Add a host to a liboping object

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <oping.h>

  int ping_host_add    (pingobj_t *obj, const char *host);
  int ping_host_remove (pingobj_t *obj, const char *host);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<ping_host_add> method tries to resolve the I<host> argument, open a
socket and associate everything with the liboping object I<obj>.

The I<obj> argument is a pointer to an liboping object, as returned by
ping_construct(3).

The I<host> parameter is a '\0' terminated string which is interpreted as a
hostname or an IP address. Depending on the address family setting, set with
ping_setopt(3), the hostname is resolved to an IPv4 or IPv6 address.

The B<ping_host_remove> method looks for I<host> within I<obj> and remove it if
found. It will close the socket and deallocate the memory, too.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

If B<ping_host_add> succeeds it returns zero. If an error occurs a value less
than zero is returned and the last error is saved internally. You can receive
the error message using ping_get_error(3).

B<ping_host_remove> returns zero upon success and less than zero if it failed.
Currently the only reason for failure is that the host isn't found, but this is
subject to change. Use ping_get_error(3) to receive the error message.

=head1 SEE ALSO

ping_construct(3),
ping_setopt(3),
ping_get_error(3)

=head1 AUTHOR

liboping is written by Florian octo Forster E<lt>octo at verplant.orgE<gt>.
It's homepage can be found at L<http://verplant.org/liboping/>.

(c) 2005, 2006 by Florian octo Forster.
